doc/man/mut.rst, before:

.. _`mut`:

#################################
``mut`` - MySQL Utilities Testing
#################################


SYNOPSIS
--------

::

 mut [[--help | --version ] | --verbose | --sorted | --record |
            --utildir=<path> | --width=<num> | --start-port=<num> |
            --testdir=<path> | --do-test=<prefix> | --force |
            [ --server=<user>[<passwd>]@<host>:[<port>][:<socket>] |
            [, --server=<user>[<passwd>]@<host>:[<port>][:<socket>] ] |
            [ --suite=<suite> | [, --suite=<suite> ]] |
            [ --skip-suite=<suite> | [, --skip-suite=<suite> ]] |
              --skip-tests=<test_prefix> | --skip-long |
            [ --skip-test=<testname> | [, --skip-test=<testname> ]] |
            [ <testname> | <suite>.<testname> |
            [, <testname> | <suite>.<testname> ]]

DESCRIPTION
-----------

This utility is designed to execute predefined tests to test the MySQL
Utilities. The tests are divided into suites (stored as folders). By default,
all tests located in the /test folder are considered the 'main' suite.

You can select any number of tests to run, select one or more suites to
restrict the tests, exclude suites and tests, and specify the location of
the utilities and tests.

The utility requires the existance of at least one server with which to use to
clone for testing purposes. You must specify at least one server, but you may
specify multiple servers for tests designed to use additional servers.

The utility has a special test suite named 'performance' where performance
related tests are placed. This suite is not included by default and must be
specified with the :option:`--suite=` option to execute the performance tests.

OPTIONS
-------

.. option:: --version

   Show program's version number and exit

.. option:: --help

   Show this help message and exit

.. option:: --server=<server>

   Server given by *server* will be used in the tests. The format of
   *server* is given in :ref:`connspec`. List option multiple times
   for multiple servers to use

.. option:: --do-test=<prefix>

    Execute all tests that begin with *prefix*.

.. option:: --suite=<suite>

   test suite to execute - list option multiple times for multiple
   suites

.. option:: --skip-test=<test>

   exclude *test* - list option multiple times for multiple tests

.. option:: --skip-tests=<tests>

   exclude *tests* that begin with this string

.. option:: --start-test=<prefix>

   start executing tests that begin with *prefix*

.. option:: --skip-long

   exclude tests that require greater resources or take a long time to
   run

.. option:: --testdir=<path>

   Path to test directory

.. option:: --start-port=<port>

   starting port for spawned servers

.. option:: --record

   record output of specified test if successful - works with only one
   test selected

.. option:: --sorted

   execute tests sorted by suite.name (default = True)

.. option:: --utildir=<path>

   location of utilities

.. option:: --width=<number>

   Display width

.. option:: --force, -f

   Do not abort when a test fails

.. option:: --verbose, -v

   control how much information is displayed. For example, -v =
   verbose, -vv = more verbose, -vvv = debug. Use -vvv to display actual
   results of test cases to the screen and ignore result processing - used to
   diagnose test execution problems

NOTES
-----

The information specified for the server must be a valid login
account.

EXAMPLES
--------

The following example demonstrates how to use mut to execute a subset of the
tests using an existing server which is cloned.::

    $ python mut --server=root@localhost --do-tests=clone_user --width=70

    MySQL Utilities Testing - MUT

    Parameters used:
      Display Width       = 70
      Sorted              = True
      Force               = False
      Test directory      = './test'
      Utilities directory = '../scripts'
      Starting port       = 3310
      Test wildcard       = 'clone_user%'

    Servers:
      Connecting to localhost as user root on port 3306: CONNECTED

    ----------------------------------------------------------------------
    TEST NAME                                                STATUS   TIME
    ======================================================================
    main.clone_user                                          [pass]     54
    main.clone_user_errors                                   [pass]     27
    main.clone_user_parameters                               [pass]     17
    ----------------------------------------------------------------------
    Testing completed: Friday 03 December 2010 09:50:06

    All 3 tests passed.

Notice in the example above the test name, status, and relative time is
displayed.

COPYRIGHT
---------

Copyright (c) 2010, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; version 2 of the License.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA

Commit message:

WL#5977 - MySQL Utilities: Add generate SQL to mysqldiff output
This patch adds the following features to the mysqldiff utility.

  - add a new difference type of SQL|sql to generate SQL transformation
    statements 
  - changes-for option to form difference as a->b, a<-b
  - show-reverse option for difference type = SQL to show opposite
    transformation
  - additional tests for new features

doc/man/mut.rst, after:

.. _`mut`:

#################################
``mut`` - MySQL Utilities Testing
#################################


SYNOPSIS
--------

::

 mut [[--help | --version ] | --verbose | --sorted | --record |
            --utildir=<path> | --width=<num> | --start-port=<num> |
            --testdir=<path> | --do-test=<prefix> | --force |
            [ --server=<user>[<passwd>]@<host>:[<port>][:<socket>] |
            [, --server=<user>[<passwd>]@<host>:[<port>][:<socket>] ] |
            [ --suite=<suite> | [, --suite=<suite> ]] |
            [ --skip-suite=<suite> | [, --skip-suite=<suite> ]] |
              --skip-tests=<test_prefix> | --skip-long |
            [ --skip-test=<testname> | [, --skip-test=<testname> ]] |
            [ <testname> | <suite>.<testname> |
            [, <testname> | <suite>.<testname> ]]

DESCRIPTION
-----------

This utility is designed to execute predefined tests to test the MySQL
Utilities. The tests are divided into suites (stored as folders). By default,
all tests located in the /test folder are considered the 'main' suite.

You can select any number of tests to run, select one or more suites to
restrict the tests, exclude suites and tests, and specify the location of
the utilities and tests.

The utility requires the existance of at least one server with which to use to
clone for testing purposes. You must specify at least one server, but you may
specify multiple servers for tests designed to use additional servers.

The utility has a special test suite named 'performance' where performance
related tests are placed. This suite is not included by default and must be
specified with the :option:`--suite=` option to execute the performance tests.

OPTIONS
-------

.. option:: --version

   Show program's version number and exit

.. option:: --help

   Show this help message and exit

.. option:: --server=<server>

   Server given by *server* will be used in the tests. The format of
   *server* is given in :ref:`connspec`. List option multiple times
   for multiple servers to use

.. option:: --do-test=<prefix>

    Execute all tests that begin with *prefix*.

.. option:: --suite=<suite>

   test suite to execute - list option multiple times for multiple
   suites

.. option:: --skip-test=<test>

   exclude *test* - list option multiple times for multiple tests

.. option:: --skip-tests=<tests>

   exclude *tests* that begin with this string

.. option:: --start-test=<prefix>

   start executing tests that begin with *prefix*

.. option:: --skip-long

   exclude tests that require greater resources or take a long time to
   run

.. option:: --testdir=<path>

   Path to test directory

.. option:: --start-port=<port>

   starting port for spawned servers

.. option:: --record

   record output of specified test if successful - works with only one
   test selected

.. option:: --sorted

   execute tests sorted by suite.name (default = True)

.. option:: --utildir=<path>

   location of utilities

.. option:: --width=<number>

   Display width

.. option:: --force, -f

   Do not abort when a test fails

.. option:: --verbose, -v

   control how much information is displayed. For example, -v =
   verbose, -vv = more verbose, -vvv = debug. Use -vvv to display actual
   results of test cases to the screen and ignore result processing - used to
   diagnose test execution problems

NOTES
-----

The information specified for the server must be a valid login
account.

Any test named ???_template.py shall be skipped. This permits the developer
to create a base class to import for a collection of tests based on a common
code base.

EXAMPLES
--------

The following example demonstrates how to use mut to execute a subset of the
tests using an existing server which is cloned.::

    $ python mut --server=root@localhost --do-tests=clone_user --width=70

    MySQL Utilities Testing - MUT

    Parameters used:
      Display Width       = 70
      Sorted              = True
      Force               = False
      Test directory      = './test'
      Utilities directory = '../scripts'
      Starting port       = 3310
      Test wildcard       = 'clone_user%'

    Servers:
      Connecting to localhost as user root on port 3306: CONNECTED

    ----------------------------------------------------------------------
    TEST NAME                                                STATUS   TIME
    ======================================================================
    main.clone_user                                          [pass]     54
    main.clone_user_errors                                   [pass]     27
    main.clone_user_parameters                               [pass]     17
    ----------------------------------------------------------------------
    Testing completed: Friday 03 December 2010 09:50:06

    All 3 tests passed.

Notice in the example above the test name, status, and relative time is
displayed.

COPYRIGHT
---------

Copyright (c) 2010, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; version 2 of the License.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA
