doc/man/mysqlindexcheck.rst, before:

.. `mysqlindexcheck`:

##################################################################
``mysqlindexcheck`` - Identify Potentially Redundant Table Indexes
##################################################################

SYNOPSIS
--------

::

  mysqlindexcheck --server=<user>[:<passwd>]@<host>[:<port>][:<socket>]
                 [[ --help | --version ] |
                 [ --show-drops | --skip | --verbose | --show-indexes |
                 --format=[GRID|SQL|TAB|CSV] |
                 --stats [--best[=<N>] | --worst[=<N>] ]]
                 <db>[.<table>] ... ]

DESCRIPTION
-----------

This utility read the indexes for one or more tables and identifies
duplicate and potentially redundant indexes. Depending on the index
type, the utility applies the following rules to compare indexes
(designated as idx_a and idx_b):

**BTREE**
  idx_b is redundant to idx_a if and only if the first n columns in idx_b
  also appear in idx_a. Order and uniqueness count.

**HASH**
  idx_a and idx_b are duplicates if and only if they contain the same
  columns in the same order. Uniqueness counts.

**SPATIAL**
  idx_a and idx_b are duplicates if and only if they contain the same
  column (only one column is permitted).

**FULLTEXT**
  idx_b is redundant to idx_a if and only if all columns in idx_b are
  included in idx_a. Order counts.

To scan all tables in a database, specify only the database name. To scan
a specific table, name the table in *db*.*table* format. It is possible
to mix database and table names.

You can scan tables in any database except the internal databases
**mysql**, **INFORMATION_SCHEMA**, and **performance_schema**.

To see **DROP** statements to drop redundant indexes,
specify the :option:`--show-drops` option. To examine the existing
indexes, use the :option:`--verbose` option, which prints the
equivalent **CREATE INDEX** (or **ALTER TABLE** for primary keys).

To display the best or worst nonprimary key indexes for each table,
use the :option:`--best` or :option:`--worst` option. This causes the
output to show the best or worst indexes from tables with 10 or more rows.
By default, each option shows five indexes. To override that, provide
an integer value for the option.

To change the format of the index lists displayed for the
:option:`--show-indexes`, :option:`--best`, and :option:`--worst` options,
use one of the following values with the :option:`--format` option:

**GRID** (default)
  Display output in grid or table format like that of the
  :command:`mysql` monitor.

**CSV**
  Display output in comma-separated values format.

**TAB**
  Display output in tab-separated format.

**SQL**
  print SQL statements rather than a list.

**VERTICAL**
  Display output in single-column format like that of the ``\G`` command
  for the :command:`mysql` monitor.

Note: The :option:`--best` and :option:`--worst` lists cannot be
printed as SQL statements.

You must provide connection parameters (user, host, password, and
so forth) for an account that has the appropriate privileges to
read all objects accessed during the operation.
For details, see :ref:`mysqlindexcheck-notes`.

OPTIONS
-------

:command:`mysqlindexcheck` accepts the following command-line options:

.. option:: --help

   Display a help message and exit.

.. option:: --best[=<N>]

   If :option:`--stats` is given,
   limit index statistics to the best N indexes. The default value of N is
   5 if omitted.

.. option:: --format=<index_format>, -f<index_format>

   Specify the index list display format for output produced by
   :option:`--stats`. Permitted format values are
   GRID, CSV, TAB, SQL, and VERTICAL, or the corresponding shortcuts G, C, T,
   S, and V.  The default is GRID.

.. option:: --server=<source>

   Connection information for the source server in the format:
   <user>[:<passwd>]@<host>[:<port>][:<socket>]

.. option:: --show-drops, -d

   Display **DROP** statements for dropping indexes.

.. option:: --show-indexes, -i

   Display indexes for each table.

.. option:: --skip, -s

   Skip tables that do not exist.

.. option:: --stats

    Show index performance statistics.

.. option::  --verbose, -v

   Specify how much information to display. Use this option
   multiple times to increase the amount of information.  For example, -v =
   verbose, -vv = more verbose, -vvv = debug.

.. option:: --version

   Display version information and exit.

.. option:: --worst[=<N>]

   If :option:`--stats` is given,
   limit index statistics to the worst N indexes. The default value of N is
   5 if omitted.

.. _mysqlindexcheck-notes:

NOTES
-----

The login user must have the appropriate permissions to read all databases
and tables listed.

EXAMPLES
--------

To scan all tables in the employees database to see the
possible redundant and duplicate indexes, use this command::

    $ mysqlindexcheck --server=root@localhost employees
    # Source on localhost: ... connected.
    # The following indexes are duplicates or redundant \
      for table employees.dept_emp:
    #
    CREATE INDEX emp_no ON employees.dept_emp (emp_no) USING BTREE
    #     may be redundant or duplicate of:
    ALTER TABLE employees.dept_emp ADD PRIMARY KEY (emp_no, dept_no)
    # The following indexes are duplicates or redundant \
      for table employees.dept_manager:
    #
    CREATE INDEX emp_no ON employees.dept_manager (emp_no) USING BTREE
    #     may be redundant or duplicate of:
    ALTER TABLE employees.dept_manager ADD PRIMARY KEY (emp_no, dept_no)
    # The following indexes are duplicates or redundant \
      for table employees.salaries:
    #
    CREATE INDEX emp_no ON employees.salaries (emp_no) USING BTREE
    #     may be redundant or duplicate of:
    ALTER TABLE employees.salaries ADD PRIMARY KEY (emp_no, from_date)
    # The following indexes are duplicates or redundant \
      for table employees.titles:
    #
    CREATE INDEX emp_no ON employees.titles (emp_no) USING BTREE
    #     may be redundant or duplicate of:
    ALTER TABLE employees.titles ADD PRIMARY KEY (emp_no, title, from_date)

COPYRIGHT
---------

Copyright (c) 2010, 2012, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; version 2 of the License.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA

Commit message:

BUG#13554556 : MySQL Utilities : Refactor option choices
This patch refactors options that use a known list of values from
a string to a choice type. This permits less code because it moves
validation to the parser.

The patch also includes the following improvements.

  - Choice values for options of type="choice" are case insensitive and
    allow prefix selection
  - Minor updates to documentation
  - Removal of single character choices from --format and other choice
    based options
  - Consolidation of parser setup across all utilities (all have same
    --help, --version options)
  - Change code to use lower case strings for all choice-based options
  - Tests updated to account for new choice features and changes to
    option help text
  - Standardizes the help text from --help option to use lower case
    starting word

doc/man/mysqlindexcheck.rst, after:

.. `mysqlindexcheck`:

##################################################################
``mysqlindexcheck`` - Identify Potentially Redundant Table Indexes
##################################################################

SYNOPSIS
--------

::

  mysqlindexcheck --server=<user>[:<passwd>]@<host>[:<port>][:<socket>]
                 [[ --help | --version ] |
                 [ --show-drops | --skip | --verbose | --show-indexes |
                 --format=[grid|sql|tab|csv] |
                 --stats [--best[=<N>] | --worst[=<N>] ]]
                 <db>[.<table>] ... ]

DESCRIPTION
-----------

This utility read the indexes for one or more tables and identifies
duplicate and potentially redundant indexes. Depending on the index
type, the utility applies the following rules to compare indexes
(designated as idx_a and idx_b):

**BTREE**
  idx_b is redundant to idx_a if and only if the first n columns in idx_b
  also appear in idx_a. Order and uniqueness count.

**HASH**
  idx_a and idx_b are duplicates if and only if they contain the same
  columns in the same order. Uniqueness counts.

**SPATIAL**
  idx_a and idx_b are duplicates if and only if they contain the same
  column (only one column is permitted).

**FULLTEXT**
  idx_b is redundant to idx_a if and only if all columns in idx_b are
  included in idx_a. Order counts.

To scan all tables in a database, specify only the database name. To scan
a specific table, name the table in *db*.*table* format. It is possible
to mix database and table names.

You can scan tables in any database except the internal databases
**mysql**, **INFORMATION_SCHEMA**, and **performance_schema**.

To see **DROP** statements to drop redundant indexes,
specify the :option:`--show-drops` option. To examine the existing
indexes, use the :option:`--verbose` option, which prints the
equivalent **CREATE INDEX** (or **ALTER TABLE** for primary keys).

To display the best or worst nonprimary key indexes for each table,
use the :option:`--best` or :option:`--worst` option. This causes the
output to show the best or worst indexes from tables with 10 or more rows.
By default, each option shows five indexes. To override that, provide
an integer value for the option.

To change the format of the index lists displayed for the
:option:`--show-indexes`, :option:`--best`, and :option:`--worst` options,
use one of the following values with the :option:`--format` option:

**grid** (default)
  Display output in grid or table format like that of the
  :command:`mysql` monitor.

**csv**
  Display output in comma-separated values format.

**tab**
  Display output in tab-separated format.

**sql**
  print SQL statements rather than a list.

**vertical**
  Display output in single-column format like that of the ``\G`` command
  for the :command:`mysql` monitor.

Note: The :option:`--best` and :option:`--worst` lists cannot be
printed as SQL statements.

You must provide connection parameters (user, host, password, and
so forth) for an account that has the appropriate privileges to
read all objects accessed during the operation.
For details, see :ref:`mysqlindexcheck-notes`.

OPTIONS
-------

:command:`mysqlindexcheck` accepts the following command-line options:

.. option:: --help

   Display a help message and exit.

.. option:: --best[=<N>]

   If :option:`--stats` is given,
   limit index statistics to the best N indexes. The default value of N is
   5 if omitted.

.. option:: --format=<index_format>, -f<index_format>

   Specify the index list display format for output produced by
   :option:`--stats`. Permitted format values are grid, csv, tab, sql, and
   vertical. The default is grid.

.. option:: --server=<source>

   Connection information for the source server in the format:
   <user>[:<passwd>]@<host>[:<port>][:<socket>]

.. option:: --show-drops, -d

   Display **DROP** statements for dropping indexes.

.. option:: --show-indexes, -i

   Display indexes for each table.

.. option:: --skip, -s

   Skip tables that do not exist.

.. option:: --stats

    Show index performance statistics.

.. option::  --verbose, -v

   Specify how much information to display. Use this option
   multiple times to increase the amount of information.  For example, -v =
   verbose, -vv = more verbose, -vvv = debug.

.. option:: --version

   Display version information and exit.

.. option:: --worst[=<N>]

   If :option:`--stats` is given,
   limit index statistics to the worst N indexes. The default value of N is
   5 if omitted.

.. _mysqlindexcheck-notes:

NOTES
-----

The login user must have the appropriate permissions to read all databases
and tables listed.

The permitted values for the :option:`--format` option are case insensitive.
The option also permits the user to specify a prefix for a valid value. For
example, --format=g will specify the grid format. An error will be generated if
a prefix matches more than one valid value.

EXAMPLES
--------

To scan all tables in the employees database to see the
possible redundant and duplicate indexes, use this command::

    $ mysqlindexcheck --server=root@localhost employees
    # Source on localhost: ... connected.
    # The following indexes are duplicates or redundant \
      for table employees.dept_emp:
    #
    CREATE INDEX emp_no ON employees.dept_emp (emp_no) USING BTREE
    #     may be redundant or duplicate of:
    ALTER TABLE employees.dept_emp ADD PRIMARY KEY (emp_no, dept_no)
    # The following indexes are duplicates or redundant \
      for table employees.dept_manager:
    #
    CREATE INDEX emp_no ON employees.dept_manager (emp_no) USING BTREE
    #     may be redundant or duplicate of:
    ALTER TABLE employees.dept_manager ADD PRIMARY KEY (emp_no, dept_no)
    # The following indexes are duplicates or redundant \
      for table employees.salaries:
    #
    CREATE INDEX emp_no ON employees.salaries (emp_no) USING BTREE
    #     may be redundant or duplicate of:
    ALTER TABLE employees.salaries ADD PRIMARY KEY (emp_no, from_date)
    # The following indexes are duplicates or redundant \
      for table employees.titles:
    #
    CREATE INDEX emp_no ON employees.titles (emp_no) USING BTREE
    #     may be redundant or duplicate of:
    ALTER TABLE employees.titles ADD PRIMARY KEY (emp_no, title, from_date)

COPYRIGHT
---------

Copyright (c) 2010, 2012, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; version 2 of the License.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA
