doc/man/mysqlrplcheck.rst, before:

.. `mysqlrplcheck`:

####################################################
``mysqlrplcheck`` - Check Replication Prerequisities
####################################################

SYNOPSIS
--------

::

 mysqlrplcheck [options]

DESCRIPTION
-----------

This utility checks the prerequisites for replication between a master and
a slave. These checks (called tests) are designed to ensure a healthy
replication setup. The utility performs the following tests:

#. Is the binary log enabled on the master?
#. Are there binary logging exceptions (such as ``*_do_db`` or
   ``*_ignore_db`` settings)? If so, display them.
#. Does the replication user exist on the master with the correct privileges?
#. Are there ``server_id`` conflicts?
#. Is the slave connected to this master? If not, display the master
   host and port.
#. Are there conflicts between the ``master.info`` file on the slave and
   the values shown in **SHOW SLAVE STATUS** on the master?
#. Are the InnoDB configurations compatible (plugin vs. native)?
#. Are the storage engines compatible (have same on slave as master)?
#. Are the ``lower_case_tables_names`` settings compatible? Warn if there are
   settings for lowercase/uppercase table names that can cause problems.
   See Bug #59240.
#. Is the slave behind the master?

The utility runs each test in turn unless there is a fatal error
preventing further testing, such as a loss of connection to the servers.

Each test can complete with one of the following states: pass (the
prerequisites are met), fail (the prerequisites were met but one or more
errors occurred or there are exceptions to consider), or warn (the test
found some unusual settings that should be examined further but may not be
in error).

Use the :option:`--verbose` option to see additional information such as
server IDs, ``lower_case_table_name`` settings, and the contents of the
master information file on the slave.

To see the values from the **SHOW SLAVE STATUS** statement, use the
:option:`--show-slave-status` option.

OPTIONS
-------

:command:`mysqlrplcheck` accepts the following command-line options:

.. option:: --help

   Display a help message and exit.

.. option:: --master=<source>

   Connection information for the master server in
   <*user*>[:<*passwd*>]@<*host*>[:<*port*>][:<*socket*>] format.

.. option:: --master-info-file=<file>

   The name of the master information file on the slave. The default is
   ``master.info`` read from the data directory. Note: This option requires
   that you run the utility on the slave and that you have appropriate
   read access for the file.

.. option:: --quiet, -q

   Turn off all messages for quiet execution. Note: Errors and warnings are
   not suppressed.
   
.. option:: --show-slave-status, -s

   Display the values from **SHOW SLAVE STATUS** on the master.

.. option:: --slave=<source>

   Connection information for the slave server in
   <*user*>[:<*passwd*>]@<*host*>[:<*port*>][:<*socket*>] format.
   
.. option:: --suppress

   Suppress warning messages.

.. option::  --verbose, -v

   Specify how much information to display. Use this option
   multiple times to increase the amount of information.  For example,
   :option:`-v` = verbose, :option:`-vv` = more verbose, :option:`-vvv` =
   debug.

.. option:: --version

   Display version information and exit.

.. option:: --width=<number>

   Change the display width of the test report.
   The default is 75 characters.

NOTES
-----

The login user must have the appropriate permissions to execute **SHOW SLAVE
STATUS**, **SHOW MASTER STATUS**, and **SHOW VARIABLES** on the appropriate
servers.

EXAMPLES
--------

To check the prerequisites of a master and slave that currently are actively
performing replication, use the following command::

    $ mysqlrplcheck --master=root@host1:3310 --slave=root@host2:3311
    # master on host1: ... connected.
    # slave on host2: ... connected.
    Test Description                                                  Status
    ------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Checking for binary logging on master                             [pass]
    Are there binlog exceptions?                                      [pass]
    Replication user exists?                                          [pass]
    Checking server_id values                                         [pass]
    Is slave connected to master?                                     [pass]
    Check master information file                                     [pass]
    Checking InnoDB compatibility                                     [pass]
    Checking storage engines compatibility                            [pass]
    Checking lower_case_table_names settings                          [pass]
    Checking slave delay (seconds behind master)                      [pass]
    # ...done.

As shown in the example, you must provide valid login information
for both the master and the slave.
    
To perform the same command but also display the contents of the master
information file on the slave and the values of **SHOW SLAVE STATUS** as well as
additional details, use this command::

    $ mysqlrplcheck --master=root@host1:3310 --slave=root@host2:3311 \
      --show-slave-status -vv
    # master on host1: ... connected.
    # slave on host2: ... connected.
    Test Description                                                  Status
    ------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Checking for binary logging on master                              [pass]
    Are there binlog exceptions?                                       [pass]
    Replication user exists?                                           [pass]
    Checking server_id values                                          [pass]
    
     master id = 10
      slave id = 11
    
    Is slave connected to master?                                      [pass]
    Check master information file                                      [pass]
    
    #
    # Master information file: 
    #
                   Master_Log_File : clone-bin.000001
               Read_Master_Log_Pos : 482
                       Master_Host : host1
                       Master_User : rpl
                   Master_Password : XXXX
                       Master_Port : 3310
                     Connect_Retry : 60
                Master_SSL_Allowed : 0
                Master_SSL_CA_File : 
                Master_SSL_CA_Path : 
                   Master_SSL_Cert : 
                 Master_SSL_Cipher : 
                    Master_SSL_Key : 
     Master_SSL_Verify_Server_Cert : 0
    
    Checking InnoDB compatibility                                      [pass]
    Checking storage engines compatibility                             [pass]
    Checking lower_case_table_names settings                           [pass]
    
      Master lower_case_table_names: 2
       Slave lower_case_table_names: 2
    
    Checking slave delay (seconds behind master)                       [pass]
    
    #
    # Slave status: 
    #
                    Slave_IO_State : Waiting for master to send event
                       Master_Host : host1
                       Master_User : rpl
                       Master_Port : 3310
                     Connect_Retry : 60
                   Master_Log_File : clone-bin.000001
               Read_Master_Log_Pos : 482
                    Relay_Log_File : clone-relay-bin.000006
                     Relay_Log_Pos : 251
             Relay_Master_Log_File : clone-bin.000001
                  Slave_IO_Running : Yes
                 Slave_SQL_Running : Yes
                   Replicate_Do_DB : 
               Replicate_Ignore_DB : 
                Replicate_Do_Table : 
            Replicate_Ignore_Table : 
           Replicate_Wild_Do_Table : 
       Replicate_Wild_Ignore_Table : 
                        Last_Errno : 0
                        Last_Error : 
                      Skip_Counter : 0
               Exec_Master_Log_Pos : 482
                   Relay_Log_Space : 551
                   Until_Condition : None
                    Until_Log_File : 
                     Until_Log_Pos : 0
                Master_SSL_Allowed : No
                Master_SSL_CA_File : 
                Master_SSL_CA_Path : 
                   Master_SSL_Cert : 
                 Master_SSL_Cipher : 
                    Master_SSL_Key : 
             Seconds_Behind_Master : 0
     Master_SSL_Verify_Server_Cert : No
                     Last_IO_Errno : 0
                     Last_IO_Error : 
                    Last_SQL_Errno : 0
                    Last_SQL_Error : 
    # ...done.


COPYRIGHT
---------

Copyright (c) 2011, 2012, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; version 2 of the License.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA

Commit message:

BUG#14158085 : connection fails to connect for aliases
When the failover utilities connection parameters are given using
an alias such as IP for hostname, loopback for localhost, etc. 
depending on how replication was started, the utilities may fail
to connect to or report that slaves are not connected.

The code for detecting if a slave is connected to a master must
be updated to include checking of aliases including, but not
limited to, IP, hostname, and alternative local host mappings.

Note: if IP is used and user does not have reverse DNS capability,
the connection test may still fail.

doc/man/mysqlrplcheck.rst, after:

.. `mysqlrplcheck`:

####################################################
``mysqlrplcheck`` - Check Replication Prerequisities
####################################################

SYNOPSIS
--------

::

 mysqlrplcheck [options]

DESCRIPTION
-----------

This utility checks the prerequisites for replication between a master and
a slave. These checks (called tests) are designed to ensure a healthy
replication setup. The utility performs the following tests:

#. Is the binary log enabled on the master?
#. Are there binary logging exceptions (such as ``*_do_db`` or
   ``*_ignore_db`` settings)? If so, display them.
#. Does the replication user exist on the master with the correct privileges?
#. Are there ``server_id`` conflicts?
#. Is the slave connected to this master? If not, display the master
   host and port.
#. Are there conflicts between the ``master.info`` file on the slave and
   the values shown in **SHOW SLAVE STATUS** on the master?
#. Are the InnoDB configurations compatible (plugin vs. native)?
#. Are the storage engines compatible (have same on slave as master)?
#. Are the ``lower_case_tables_names`` settings compatible? Warn if there are
   settings for lowercase/uppercase table names that can cause problems.
   See Bug #59240.
#. Is the slave behind the master?

The utility runs each test in turn unless there is a fatal error
preventing further testing, such as a loss of connection to the servers.

Each test can complete with one of the following states: pass (the
prerequisites are met), fail (the prerequisites were met but one or more
errors occurred or there are exceptions to consider), or warn (the test
found some unusual settings that should be examined further but may not be
in error).

Use the :option:`--verbose` option to see additional information such as
server IDs, ``lower_case_table_name`` settings, and the contents of the
master information file on the slave.

To see the values from the **SHOW SLAVE STATUS** statement, use the
:option:`--show-slave-status` option.

OPTIONS
-------

:command:`mysqlrplcheck` accepts the following command-line options:

.. option:: --help

   Display a help message and exit.

.. option:: --master=<source>

   Connection information for the master server in
   <*user*>[:<*passwd*>]@<*host*>[:<*port*>][:<*socket*>] format.

.. option:: --master-info-file=<file>

   The name of the master information file on the slave. The default is
   ``master.info`` read from the data directory. Note: This option requires
   that you run the utility on the slave and that you have appropriate
   read access for the file.

.. option:: --quiet, -q

   Turn off all messages for quiet execution. Note: Errors and warnings are
   not suppressed.
   
.. option:: --show-slave-status, -s

   Display the values from **SHOW SLAVE STATUS** on the master.

.. option:: --slave=<source>

   Connection information for the slave server in
   <*user*>[:<*passwd*>]@<*host*>[:<*port*>][:<*socket*>] format.
   
.. option:: --suppress

   Suppress warning messages.

.. option::  --verbose, -v

   Specify how much information to display. Use this option
   multiple times to increase the amount of information.  For example,
   :option:`-v` = verbose, :option:`-vv` = more verbose, :option:`-vvv` =
   debug.

.. option:: --version

   Display version information and exit.

.. option:: --width=<number>

   Change the display width of the test report.
   The default is 75 characters.

NOTES
-----

The login user must have the appropriate permissions to execute **SHOW SLAVE
STATUS**, **SHOW MASTER STATUS**, and **SHOW VARIABLES** on the appropriate
servers.

Mixing IP and hostnames is not recommended. The replication-specific utilities
will attempt to compare hostnames and IP addresses as aliases for checking
slave connectivity to the master. However, if your installation does not
support reverse name lookup, the comparison could fail. Without the ability to
do a reverse name lookup, the replication utilities could report a false
negative that the slave is (not) connected to the master.

For example, if you setup replication using MASTER_HOST=ubuntu.net on the
slave and later connect to the slave with mysqlrplcheck and have the master
specified as --master=192.168.0.6 using the valid IP address for ubuntu.net,
you must have the ability to do a reverse name lookup to compare the IP
(192.168.0.6) and the hostname (ubuntu.net) to determine if they are the same
machine. 

EXAMPLES
--------

To check the prerequisites of a master and slave that currently are actively
performing replication, use the following command::

    $ mysqlrplcheck --master=root@host1:3310 --slave=root@host2:3311
    # master on host1: ... connected.
    # slave on host2: ... connected.
    Test Description                                                  Status
    ------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Checking for binary logging on master                             [pass]
    Are there binlog exceptions?                                      [pass]
    Replication user exists?                                          [pass]
    Checking server_id values                                         [pass]
    Is slave connected to master?                                     [pass]
    Check master information file                                     [pass]
    Checking InnoDB compatibility                                     [pass]
    Checking storage engines compatibility                            [pass]
    Checking lower_case_table_names settings                          [pass]
    Checking slave delay (seconds behind master)                      [pass]
    # ...done.

As shown in the example, you must provide valid login information
for both the master and the slave.
    
To perform the same command but also display the contents of the master
information file on the slave and the values of **SHOW SLAVE STATUS** as well as
additional details, use this command::

    $ mysqlrplcheck --master=root@host1:3310 --slave=root@host2:3311 \
      --show-slave-status -vv
    # master on host1: ... connected.
    # slave on host2: ... connected.
    Test Description                                                  Status
    ------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Checking for binary logging on master                              [pass]
    Are there binlog exceptions?                                       [pass]
    Replication user exists?                                           [pass]
    Checking server_id values                                          [pass]
    
     master id = 10
      slave id = 11
    
    Is slave connected to master?                                      [pass]
    Check master information file                                      [pass]
    
    #
    # Master information file: 
    #
                   Master_Log_File : clone-bin.000001
               Read_Master_Log_Pos : 482
                       Master_Host : host1
                       Master_User : rpl
                   Master_Password : XXXX
                       Master_Port : 3310
                     Connect_Retry : 60
                Master_SSL_Allowed : 0
                Master_SSL_CA_File : 
                Master_SSL_CA_Path : 
                   Master_SSL_Cert : 
                 Master_SSL_Cipher : 
                    Master_SSL_Key : 
     Master_SSL_Verify_Server_Cert : 0
    
    Checking InnoDB compatibility                                      [pass]
    Checking storage engines compatibility                             [pass]
    Checking lower_case_table_names settings                           [pass]
    
      Master lower_case_table_names: 2
       Slave lower_case_table_names: 2
    
    Checking slave delay (seconds behind master)                       [pass]
    
    #
    # Slave status: 
    #
                    Slave_IO_State : Waiting for master to send event
                       Master_Host : host1
                       Master_User : rpl
                       Master_Port : 3310
                     Connect_Retry : 60
                   Master_Log_File : clone-bin.000001
               Read_Master_Log_Pos : 482
                    Relay_Log_File : clone-relay-bin.000006
                     Relay_Log_Pos : 251
             Relay_Master_Log_File : clone-bin.000001
                  Slave_IO_Running : Yes
                 Slave_SQL_Running : Yes
                   Replicate_Do_DB : 
               Replicate_Ignore_DB : 
                Replicate_Do_Table : 
            Replicate_Ignore_Table : 
           Replicate_Wild_Do_Table : 
       Replicate_Wild_Ignore_Table : 
                        Last_Errno : 0
                        Last_Error : 
                      Skip_Counter : 0
               Exec_Master_Log_Pos : 482
                   Relay_Log_Space : 551
                   Until_Condition : None
                    Until_Log_File : 
                     Until_Log_Pos : 0
                Master_SSL_Allowed : No
                Master_SSL_CA_File : 
                Master_SSL_CA_Path : 
                   Master_SSL_Cert : 
                 Master_SSL_Cipher : 
                    Master_SSL_Key : 
             Seconds_Behind_Master : 0
     Master_SSL_Verify_Server_Cert : No
                     Last_IO_Errno : 0
                     Last_IO_Error : 
                    Last_SQL_Errno : 0
                    Last_SQL_Error : 
    # ...done.


COPYRIGHT
---------

Copyright (c) 2011, 2012, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; version 2 of the License.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA
