doc/man/mysqlmetagrep.rst, before:

.. _ `mysqlmetagrep`:

#############################################
``mysqlmetagrep`` - Search Object Definitions
#############################################

SYNOPSIS
--------

::

  mysqlmetagrep [ --version | --help ] | --format=<format> |
                --body | --search-objects=<types> | --regexp | --sql |
                --database=<pattern> | --pattern=<pattern>
                --server=<user>[:<passwd>]@<host>[:<port>][:<socket>]

DESCRIPTION
-----------

This utility searches for objects matching a given pattern on all the
servers specified using instances of the :option:`--server` option. It
produces output that displays the objects that match.  By default, the first
nonoption argument is taken to be the pattern unless the :option:`--pattern`
option is given. If the :option:`--pattern` option is given, all nonoption
arguments are treated as connection specifications.

Internally, the utility generates an SQL statement for searching the
necessary tables in the **INFORMATION_SCHEMA** database on the
designated servers and executes it in turn before collecting the result
and printing it as a table. If you do not want to send the statement
to the servers and instead have the utility emit the statement, you
can use the :option:`--sql` option. This can be useful if you want to
feed the output of the statement to another application such as the :command:`mysql`
monitor.

The MySQL server uses two forms of patterns when matching strings:
:ref:`simple_pattern` and :ref:`posix_regexp`.

Normally, the **LIKE** operator is used to match the name (and
optionally, the body) of objects, but this can be changed to use
the **REGEXP** operator instead by using the :option:`--regexp`
option.

Note that since the **REGEXP** operator does substring searching, it
is necessary to anchor the expression to the beginning of the string
if you want to match the beginning of the string.

To specify how to display output, use one of the following values
with the :option:`--format` option:

**GRID** (default)
  Display output in grid or table format like that of the
  :command:`mysql` monitor.

**CSV**
  Display output in comma-separated values format.

**TAB**
  Display output in tab-separated format.

**VERTICAL**
  Display output in single-column format like that of the ``\G`` command
  for the :command:`mysql` monitor.


.. _simple_pattern:

SQL Simple Patterns
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The simple patterns defined by the SQL standard consist of a string of
characters with two characters that have special meaning: **%**
(percent) matches zero or more characters and **_** (underscore)
matches exactly one character.

For example:

``'mats%'``
  Matches any string that starts with 'mats'.
``'%kindahl%'``
  Matches any string containing the word 'kindahl'.
``'%_'``
  Matches any string consisting of one or more characters.


.. _posix_regexp:

POSIX Regular Expressions
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

POSIX regular expressions are more powerful than the simple patterns
defined in the SQL standard. A regular expression is a string of
characters, optionally containing characters with special meaning:

**.**
   Matches any character.
**^**
   Matches the beginning of a string.
**$**
   Matches the end of a string.
**[axy]**
   Matches **a**, **x**, or **y**.
**[a-f]**
   Matches any character in the range **a** to
   **f** (that is, **a**, **b**, **c**, **d**,
   **e**, or **f**).
**[^axy]**
   Matches any character *except* **a**, **x**,
   or **y**.
**a\***
   Matches a sequence of zero or more **a**.
**a+**
   Matches a sequence of one or more **a**.
**a?**
   Matches zero or one **a**.
**ab|cd**
   Matches **ab** or **cd**.
**a{5}**
   Matches 5 instances of **a**.
**a{2,5}**
   Matches from 2 to 5 instances of **a**.
**(abc)+**
   Matches one or more repetitions of **abc**.

This is but a brief set of examples of regular expressions. The full
syntax is described in the `MySQL manual`_, but can often be found in
:manpage:`regex(7)`.

.. _`MySQL manual`: http://dev.mysql.com/doc/mysql/en/regexp.html


OPTIONS
-------

:command:`mysqlmetagrep` accepts the following command-line options:

.. option:: --help

   Display a help message and exit.

.. option:: --body, -b

   Search the body of stored programs (procedures, functions, triggers, and
   events). The default is to match only the name.

.. option:: --database=<pattern>

   Look only in databases matching this pattern.

.. option:: --format=<format>, -f<format>

   Specify the output display format. Permitted format values are
   GRID, CSV, TAB, and VERTICAL. The default is GRID.

.. option:: --object-types=<types>, --search-objects=<types>

   Search only for/in objects named in <types>, which is a comma-separated
   list of one or more of the values **procedure**, **function**, **event**,
   **trigger**, **table**, and **database**.

   The default is to search in objects of all types.

.. option:: --pattern=<pattern>, -e=<pattern>

   The pattern to use when matching. This is required when the first nonoption
   argument looks like a connection specification rather than a pattern.

   If the :option:`--pattern` option is given, the first nonoption argument
   is not treated as a pattern but as a connection specifier.

.. option:: --regexp, --basic-regexp, -G

   Perform pattern matches using the **REGEXP** operator. The default is
   to use **LIKE** for matching. This affects the :option:`--database`
   and :option:`--pattern` options.

.. option:: --server=<source>

   Connection information for the servers to search in the format:
   <user>[:<passwd>]@<host>[:<port>][:<socket>]
   The option may be repeated to form a list of servers to search.

.. option::  --sql, --print-sql, -p

   Print rather than executing the SQL code that would be executed to find
   all matching objects. This can be useful if you want to save the statement
   for later execution, or use it as input for other programs.

.. option:: --version

   Display version information and exit.


EXAMPLES
--------

Find all objects with a name that matches the pattern ``'t_'`` (the letter t
followed by any single character)::

    $ mysqlmetagrep --pattern="t_" --server=mats@localhost
    +------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----------+
    | Connection             | Object Type  | Object Name  | Database  |
    +------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----------+
    | mats:*@localhost:3306  | TABLE        | t1           | test      |
    | mats:*@localhost:3306  | TABLE        | t2           | test      |
    | mats:*@localhost:3306  | TABLE        | t3           | test      |
    +------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----------+

To find all object that contain ``'t2'`` in the name or the body (for
routines, triggers, and events)::

    $ mysqlmetagrep -b --pattern="%t2%" --server=mats@localhost:3306
    +------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----------+
    | Connection             | Object Type  | Object Name  | Database  |
    +------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----------+
    | root:*@localhost:3306  | TRIGGER      | tr_foo       | test      |
    | root:*@localhost:3306  | TABLE        | t2           | test      |
    +------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----------+

This is the same as the previous example, but using the **REGEXP** operator.
Note that in the pattern it is not necessary to add wildcards before or
after t2::

    $ mysqlmetagrep -Gb --pattern="t2" --server=mats@localhost
    +------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----------+
    | Connection             | Object Type  | Object Name  | Database  |
    +------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----------+
    | root:*@localhost:3306  | TRIGGER      | tr_foo       | test      |
    | root:*@localhost:3306  | TABLE        | t2           | test      |
    +------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----------+


COPYRIGHT
---------

Copyright (c) 2010, 2012, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; version 2 of the License.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA

Commit message:

BUG#13554556 : MySQL Utilities : Refactor option choices
This patch refactors options that use a known list of values from
a string to a choice type. This permits less code because it moves
validation to the parser.

The patch also includes the following improvements.

  - Choice values for options of type="choice" are case insensitive and
    allow prefix selection
  - Minor updates to documentation
  - Removal of single character choices from --format and other choice
    based options
  - Consolidation of parser setup across all utilities (all have same
    --help, --version options)
  - Change code to use lower case strings for all choice-based options
  - Tests updated to account for new choice features and changes to
    option help text
  - Standardizes the help text from --help option to use lower case
    starting word

doc/man/mysqlmetagrep.rst, after:

.. _ `mysqlmetagrep`:

#############################################
``mysqlmetagrep`` - Search Object Definitions
#############################################

SYNOPSIS
--------

::

  mysqlmetagrep [ --version | --help ] | --format=<format> |
                --body | --search-objects=<types> | --regexp | --sql |
                --database=<pattern> | --pattern=<pattern>
                --server=<user>[:<passwd>]@<host>[:<port>][:<socket>]

DESCRIPTION
-----------

This utility searches for objects matching a given pattern on all the
servers specified using instances of the :option:`--server` option. It
produces output that displays the objects that match.  By default, the first
nonoption argument is taken to be the pattern unless the :option:`--pattern`
option is given. If the :option:`--pattern` option is given, all nonoption
arguments are treated as connection specifications.

Internally, the utility generates an SQL statement for searching the
necessary tables in the **INFORMATION_SCHEMA** database on the
designated servers and executes it in turn before collecting the result
and printing it as a table. If you do not want to send the statement
to the servers and instead have the utility emit the statement, you
can use the :option:`--sql` option. This can be useful if you want to
feed the output of the statement to another application such as the :command:`mysql`
monitor.

The MySQL server uses two forms of patterns when matching strings:
:ref:`simple_pattern` and :ref:`posix_regexp`.

Normally, the **LIKE** operator is used to match the name (and
optionally, the body) of objects, but this can be changed to use
the **REGEXP** operator instead by using the :option:`--regexp`
option.

Note that since the **REGEXP** operator does substring searching, it
is necessary to anchor the expression to the beginning of the string
if you want to match the beginning of the string.

To specify how to display output, use one of the following values
with the :option:`--format` option:

**grid** (default)
  Display output in grid or table format like that of the
  :command:`mysql` monitor.

**csv**
  Display output in comma-separated values format.

**tab**
  Display output in tab-separated format.

**vertical**
  Display output in single-column format like that of the ``\G`` command
  for the :command:`mysql` monitor.


.. _simple_pattern:

SQL Simple Patterns
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The simple patterns defined by the SQL standard consist of a string of
characters with two characters that have special meaning: **%**
(percent) matches zero or more characters and **_** (underscore)
matches exactly one character.

For example:

``'mats%'``
  Matches any string that starts with 'mats'.
``'%kindahl%'``
  Matches any string containing the word 'kindahl'.
``'%_'``
  Matches any string consisting of one or more characters.


.. _posix_regexp:

POSIX Regular Expressions
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

POSIX regular expressions are more powerful than the simple patterns
defined in the SQL standard. A regular expression is a string of
characters, optionally containing characters with special meaning:

**.**
   Matches any character.
**^**
   Matches the beginning of a string.
**$**
   Matches the end of a string.
**[axy]**
   Matches **a**, **x**, or **y**.
**[a-f]**
   Matches any character in the range **a** to
   **f** (that is, **a**, **b**, **c**, **d**,
   **e**, or **f**).
**[^axy]**
   Matches any character *except* **a**, **x**,
   or **y**.
**a\***
   Matches a sequence of zero or more **a**.
**a+**
   Matches a sequence of one or more **a**.
**a?**
   Matches zero or one **a**.
**ab|cd**
   Matches **ab** or **cd**.
**a{5}**
   Matches 5 instances of **a**.
**a{2,5}**
   Matches from 2 to 5 instances of **a**.
**(abc)+**
   Matches one or more repetitions of **abc**.

This is but a brief set of examples of regular expressions. The full
syntax is described in the `MySQL manual`_, but can often be found in
:manpage:`regex(7)`.

.. _`MySQL manual`: http://dev.mysql.com/doc/mysql/en/regexp.html


OPTIONS
-------

:command:`mysqlmetagrep` accepts the following command-line options:

.. option:: --help

   Display a help message and exit.

.. option:: --body, -b

   Search the body of stored programs (procedures, functions, triggers, and
   events). The default is to match only the name.

.. option:: --database=<pattern>

   Look only in databases matching this pattern.

.. option:: --format=<format>, -f<format>

   Specify the output display format. Permitted format values are
   grid, csv, tab, and vertical. The default is grid.

.. option:: --object-types=<types>, --search-objects=<types>

   Search only for/in objects named in <types>, which is a comma-separated
   list of one or more of the values **procedure**, **function**, **event**,
   **trigger**, **table**, and **database**.

   The default is to search in objects of all types.

.. option:: --pattern=<pattern>, -e=<pattern>

   The pattern to use when matching. This is required when the first nonoption
   argument looks like a connection specification rather than a pattern.

   If the :option:`--pattern` option is given, the first nonoption argument
   is not treated as a pattern but as a connection specifier.

.. option:: --regexp, --basic-regexp, -G

   Perform pattern matches using the **REGEXP** operator. The default is
   to use **LIKE** for matching. This affects the :option:`--database`
   and :option:`--pattern` options.

.. option:: --server=<source>

   Connection information for the servers to search in the format:
   <user>[:<passwd>]@<host>[:<port>][:<socket>]
   The option may be repeated to form a list of servers to search.

.. option::  --sql, --print-sql, -p

   Print rather than executing the SQL code that would be executed to find
   all matching objects. This can be useful if you want to save the statement
   for later execution, or use it as input for other programs.

.. option:: --version

   Display version information and exit.


NOTES
-----

The permitted values for the :option:`--format` option are case insensitive.
The option also permits the user to specify a prefix for a valid value. For
example, --format=g will specify the grid format. An error will be generated if
a prefix matches more than one valid value.


EXAMPLES
--------

Find all objects with a name that matches the pattern ``'t_'`` (the letter t
followed by any single character)::

    $ mysqlmetagrep --pattern="t_" --server=mats@localhost
    +------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----------+
    | Connection             | Object Type  | Object Name  | Database  |
    +------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----------+
    | mats:*@localhost:3306  | TABLE        | t1           | test      |
    | mats:*@localhost:3306  | TABLE        | t2           | test      |
    | mats:*@localhost:3306  | TABLE        | t3           | test      |
    +------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----------+

To find all object that contain ``'t2'`` in the name or the body (for
routines, triggers, and events)::

    $ mysqlmetagrep -b --pattern="%t2%" --server=mats@localhost:3306
    +------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----------+
    | Connection             | Object Type  | Object Name  | Database  |
    +------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----------+
    | root:*@localhost:3306  | TRIGGER      | tr_foo       | test      |
    | root:*@localhost:3306  | TABLE        | t2           | test      |
    +------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----------+

This is the same as the previous example, but using the **REGEXP** operator.
Note that in the pattern it is not necessary to add wildcards before or
after t2::

    $ mysqlmetagrep -Gb --pattern="t2" --server=mats@localhost
    +------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----------+
    | Connection             | Object Type  | Object Name  | Database  |
    +------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----------+
    | root:*@localhost:3306  | TRIGGER      | tr_foo       | test      |
    | root:*@localhost:3306  | TABLE        | t2           | test      |
    +------------------------+--------------+--------------+-----------+


COPYRIGHT
---------

Copyright (c) 2010, 2012, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; version 2 of the License.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA
