docs/man/mysqldbexport.rst, before:

.. _`mysqldbexport`:

#####################################################################
``mysqldbexport`` - Export object definitions or data from a database
#####################################################################

SYNOPSIS
--------

::

 mysqldbexport --server=<user>[<passwd>]@<host>:[<port>][:<socket>]
             (<db_name>[, <db_name>])+ [--silent | --help | --no-headers | 
             --skip=(TABLES,TRIGGERS,VIEWS,PROCEDURES,FUNCTIONS,
             EVENTS,GRANTS,DATA,CREATE_DB)* | --skip-blobs | --help |
             --version | --bulk-insert]

DESCRIPTION
-----------

This utility permits a database administrator to export the metadata
(objects) or data from one or more databases.

The utility allows you to export either the object definitions, the
data, or both for a list of databases. For example, to export the
metadata of the database 'dev' from server1 on port 3306 producing
**CREATE** statements, use this command::

  mysqldbexport --server=root@server1:3306 --export=definitions dev
  
Similarly, to export the data of the database 'dev' from server1 on port 3306
producing bulk insert statements, use this command::

  mysqldbexport --server=root@server1:3306 --bulk-insert --export=data dev

Also, to export both the data and definitions of the database 'dev' from
server1 on port 3306 producing bulk insert statements, use this command::

  mysqldbexport --server=root@server1:3306 --bulk-insert --export=both dev

You can also skip objects by type using the :option:`--skip` option
and list the objects you want to skip. This can allow you to extract a
particular set of objects, say, for exporting only events (by
excluding all other types). Similarly, you can skip creating blob
UPDATE commands by specifying the :option:`--skip-blobs` option.

You also have the choice to view the output in one of the following
formats using the :option:`--format` option.

**SQL**
  Displays the output using SQL statements. For definitions, this is
  the appropriate **CREATE** and **GRANT** statements. For data, this
  is an **INSERT** statement (or bulk insert if the
  :option:`--bulk-insert` options is specified).

**GRID**
  Displays output formatted like that of the mysql monitor in a grid
  or table layout.

**CSV**
  Displays the output in a comma-separated list.
  
**TAB**
  Displays the output in a tab-separated list.
  
**VERTICAL**
  Displays the output in a single column similar to the ``\G`` option
  for the mysql monitor commands.
  
  You also have the option to specify how much data to display in one
  of the following displays using the :option:`--display` option.

**BRIEF**
  Show only the minimal columns for recreating the objects.
  
**FULL**
  Show the complete column list for recreating the objects.
  
**NAMES**
  Show only the names of the objects.
  
Note: When combining :option:`--format` and :option:`--display`, the
:option:`--display` option is ignored for SQL generation.

You can turn off the headers when using formats CSV and TAB by
specifying the :option:`--no-headers` option.

You can turn off all feedback information by specifying the
:option:`--silent` option.

You must provide login information (e.g., user, host, password, etc.
for a user that has the appropriate rights to access all objects
in the operation. See :ref:`mysqldbexport-notes` below for more details.

OPTIONS
-------

.. option:: --version

   show program's version number and exit

.. option:: --help                

.. option:: --server <server>

   connection information for the server in the form:
   <user>:<password>@<host>:<port>:<socket>

.. option:: --format <format>, -f <format>

   display the output in either SQL|S (default), GRID|G, TAB|T, CSV|C,
   or VERTICAL|V format

.. option:: --display <display>, -d <display>

   control the number of columns shown: BRIEF = minimal columns for
   object creation (default), FULL = all columns, NAMES = only object
   names (not valid for --format=SQL)

.. option:: --export <export>, -e <export>

   control the export of either DATA|D = only the table data for the
   tables in the database list, DEFINITIONS|F = export only the
   definitions for the objects in the database list, or BOTH|B =
   export the metadata followed by the data (default: export metadata)

.. option:: --bulk-insert, -b

   Use bulk insert statements for data (default:False)

.. option:: --no-headers, -h

   do not display the column headers - ignored for GRID format

.. option:: --silent

   turn off all messages for silent execution

.. option:: -v, --verbose

   control how much information is displayed. e.g., -v =
   verbose, -vv = more verbose, -vvv = debug

.. option:: --skip <skip-objects>

   specify objects to skip in the operation in the form of a
   comma-separated list (no spaces). Valid values = TABLES, VIEWS,
   TRIGGERS, PROCEDURES, FUNCTIONS, EVENTS, GRANTS, DATA, CREATE_DB

.. option:: --skip-blobs

   Do not export blob data.


.. _mysqldbexport-notes:

NOTES
-----

The login user must have the appropriate permissions to create new
objects, read the old database, access (read) the mysql database, and
grant privileges.

To export all objects from a source, the user must have **SELECT** and
**SHOW VIEW** privileges on the database as well as **SELECT** on the
mysql database.

Actual privileges needed may differ from installation to installation
depending on the security privileges present and whether the database
contains certain objects (e.g. views, events) and whether binary
logging is turned on (i.e. the need for **SUPER**).

NOTICE
------

Some combinations of the options may result in errors during the operation.
For example, eliminating tables but not views may result in an error when the
view is imported on another server.

COPYRIGHT
---------

Copyright (c) 2010, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; version 2 of the License.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307
USA

Commit message:

WL#5586 : mysqldbexport
Implemented GM's comments:

- added --file-per-table feature + tests
- changed documentation

docs/man/mysqldbexport.rst, after:

.. _`mysqldbexport`:

#####################################################################
``mysqldbexport`` - Export object definitions or data from a database
#####################################################################

SYNOPSIS
--------

::

 mysqldbexport --server=<user>[<passwd>]@<host>:[<port>][:<socket>]
             (<db_name>[, <db_name>])+ [--silent | --help | --no-headers | 
             --skip=(TABLES,TRIGGERS,VIEWS,PROCEDURES,FUNCTIONS,
             EVENTS,GRANTS,DATA,CREATE_DB)* | --skip-blobs | --help |
             --version | --bulk-insert]

DESCRIPTION
-----------

This utility permits a database administrator to export the metadata
(object definitions, hence definitions) or data or both from one or more
databases. For example, to export the definitions of the database 'dev' from
server1 on port 3306 producing **CREATE** statements, use this command::

  mysqldbexport --server=root@server1:3306 --export=definitions dev
  
Similarly, to export the data of the database 'dev' from server1 on port 3306
producing bulk insert statements, use this command::

  mysqldbexport --server=root@server1:3306 --bulk-insert --export=data dev

To export both the data and definitions of the database 'dev' from
server1 on port 3306 producing bulk insert statements, use this command::

  mysqldbexport --server=root@server1:3306 --bulk-insert --export=both dev
  
Note: by default, the utility will export only definitions.

You can also skip objects by type using the :option:`--skip` option
and list the objects you want to skip. This can allow you to extract a
particular set of objects, say, for exporting only events (by
excluding all other types). Similarly, you can skip creating blob
UPDATE commands by specifying the :option:`--skip-blobs` option.

You also have the choice to view the output in one of the following
formats using the :option:`--format` option.

**SQL**
  Displays the output using SQL statements. For definitions, this is
  the appropriate **CREATE** and **GRANT** statements. For data, this
  is an **INSERT** statement (or bulk insert if the
  :option:`--bulk-insert` options is specified).

**GRID**
  Displays output formatted like that of the mysql monitor in a grid
  or table layout.

**CSV**
  Displays the output in a comma-separated list.
  
**TAB**
  Displays the output in a tab-separated list.
  
**VERTICAL**
  Displays the output in a single column similar to the ``\G`` option
  for the mysql monitor commands.
  
  You also have the option to specify how much data to display in one
  of the following displays using the :option:`--display` option.

**BRIEF**
  Show only the minimal columns for recreating the objects.
  
**FULL**
  Show the complete column list for recreating the objects.
  
**NAMES**
  Show only the names of the objects.
  
Note: When combining :option:`--format` and :option:`--display`, the
:option:`--display` option is ignored for SQL generation.

You can turn off the headers when using formats CSV and TAB by
specifying the :option:`--no-headers` option.

You can turn off all feedback information by specifying the
:option:`--silent` option.

You can also have the utility write the data for the tables to separate files
by using the --file-per-table option. This would create files with a file
name composed of the database and table name followed by the format of the
file. For example, the following command produces files named
db1.<table name>.csv.::

  mysqldbexport --server=root@server1:3306 --format=csv db1 --export=data
  
This utility differs from mysqldump in that it can produce output in a
variety of formats to make your data extraction/transport much easier. It
permits you to export your data in the format most suitable to an external
tool, another MySQL server, or a yet another use without the need to
reformat the data.

You must provide login information (e.g., user, host, password, etc.
for a user that has the appropriate rights to access all objects
in the operation. See :ref:`mysqldbexport-notes` below for more details.

OPTIONS
-------

.. option:: --version

   show program's version number and exit

.. option:: --help                

.. option:: --server <server>

   connection information for the server in the form:
   <user>:<password>@<host>:<port>:<socket>

.. option:: --format <format>, -f <format>

   display the output in either SQL|S (default), GRID|G, TAB|T, CSV|C,
   or VERTICAL|V format

.. option:: --display <display>, -d <display>

   control the number of columns shown: BRIEF = minimal columns for
   object creation (default), FULL = all columns, NAMES = only object
   names (not valid for --format=SQL)

.. option:: --export <export>, -e <export>

   control the export of either DATA|D = only the table data for the
   tables in the database list, DEFINITIONS|F = export only the
   definitions for the objects in the database list, or BOTH|B =
   export the metadata followed by the data (default: export metadata)

.. option:: --bulk-insert, -b

   Use bulk insert statements for data (default:False)
   
.. option:: --file-per-table

   Write table data to separate files. Valid only for --export=data or
   --export=both. Files will be named <db_name>.<tbl_name>.<format>. For
   example, a CSV export of two tables in db1, t1 and t2, results in files
   named db1.t1.csv and db1.t2.csv. If definitions are included, they are
   written to stdout as normal.

.. option:: --no-headers, -h

   do not display the column headers - ignored for GRID format

.. option:: --silent

   turn off all messages for silent execution

.. option:: -v, --verbose

   control how much information is displayed. e.g., -v =
   verbose, -vv = more verbose, -vvv = debug

.. option:: --skip <skip-objects>

   specify objects to skip in the operation in the form of a
   comma-separated list (no spaces). Valid values = TABLES, VIEWS,
   TRIGGERS, PROCEDURES, FUNCTIONS, EVENTS, GRANTS, DATA, CREATE_DB

.. option:: --skip-blobs

   Do not export blob data.


.. _mysqldbexport-notes:

NOTES
-----

The login user must have the appropriate permissions to create new
objects, read the old database, access (read) the mysql database, and
grant privileges.

To export all objects from a source, the user must have **SELECT** and
**SHOW VIEW** privileges on the database as well as **SELECT** on the
mysql database.

Actual privileges needed may differ from installation to installation
depending on the security privileges present and whether the database
contains certain objects (e.g. views, events) and whether binary
logging is turned on (i.e. the need for **SUPER**).

NOTICE
------

Some combinations of the options may result in errors during the operation.
For example, eliminating tables but not views may result in an error when the
view is imported on another server.

COPYRIGHT
---------

Copyright (c) 2010, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; version 2 of the License.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307
USA
